Hi listeners, welcome back to No Priors.
Today I'm here with Mi Stendes, the
co-founder and CEO of 11 Labs, which was
founded to change the way we interact
with each other [music] and with
computers with voice. Over three short
years, they've skyrocketed to [music]
more than 300 million in run rate. Motti
and I talk about the future of voice
education, customer experience and the
other applications of this voice as well
as how to build a multi-segment [music]
from self-s serve to enterprise and
combined research and product company.
Welcome Marty.
>> S thanks for having me
>> and thank you for doing this at 7 in the
morning.
>> Our pleasure. Thank you for doing that
at 7:00 in the morning. It's great we we
we got to finally do this together. Uh I
think a lot of our listeners will have
used or played with 11 at some point but
for everybody else can you just
reintroduce the company?
>> Definitely we uh at 11 Labs we are
solving how humans and technology
interact how you can create seamlessly
with that technology. Um what this means
in practice is we build foundational
audio models. So models in a space to
help you create speech that sounds
human, understand speech in a much
better way or orchestrate all those
components to make it interactive and
then build products on top of that
foundational models. And we have our
creative product which is a platform for
helping you with narrations for
audiobooks with voiceovers for ads or
movies or dabs of those movies to other
languages. in our agent uh platform
product which is effectively an offering
to help you elevate customer experience
built an agent for personal AI education
new ways of immersive immersive media uh
but all is kind of under under light of
that mission of solving how we can
interact with technology on our terms in
a better way
>> you started the company in 2022
>> that's right
>> and you've had amazing like rocket ship
growth since then I'm sure it's felt up
and down different ways I want to ask
you about that can you give a sense of
what the scale of the company is today.
>> So we've grown to 350 people globally.
We started from from Europe. We started
as a remote company and are still first
remote first but have hubs around the
world with London being the biggest, New
York being second biggest, Warso, San
Francisco and now Tokyo and and one in
Brazil. We are at uh 300 million in in
in ARR which is uh roughly 50/50 between
self-s serve so a lot of subscription
and creators using our creative platform
and then approaching 50 uh% on the
enterprise side using our agents
platform uh uh work and that's on the
salesled classic salesled side and we
serve more than 5 million monthly
activives on that on that on that
creative uh side of the work and then on
the enterprise side we have few thousand
customers from Fortune 500s to some of
the fastest AI growing startups.
>> I think this is such a you're an amazing
founder, but I also think it's such an
interesting company because it is um
very unintuitive to I think many people
and investors in particular. I don't
know if you faced this at the beginning,
but I we were both there in 2022.
There's a there's a class of companies
that allow creation in some way when we
look at your like first business beyond
the research itself. Uh, and I would put
11 and Midjourney and Sunno and Hunen in
this category. And I think there's like
this overall sense of like who really
wants to do this? Um, what was your
initial read of like how many people
want to make voices or what made you
believe that was going to be much
broader than like if I look at dubbing
for example like it's not a huge market.
I think first piece was which is as you
mentioned there's like a very
>> it's very tricky to do both the product
and the research. I'm in a in a lucky
position that I that my co-ounder and I
known each other for 15 years. I think
he's the smartest person I know and has
been able to create a lot of that
research work to be able to create that
foundation to then elevate that
experience. But both of us are from from
Poland originally and the original
belief came from Poland. It's a it's a
very peculiar thing. But if you if you
watch a movie in Polish language, a
foreign movie in Polish language, all
the voices, whether it's a male voice or
a female voice are narrated with one
single character. So you have like a
flat delivery for everything in a movie.
>> A terrible experience.
>> It is terrible experience and it's still
you like if you grow up the the as soon
as you learn English, you like switch
out and you don't want to watch content
in this way. Um and it's crazy that it
still happens until today in this way
for majority of of of content. combining
that and I worked with Palunteer,
Michael founder worked at Google, we
knew that that will change in the future
and that all the information will be
available globally. And then as we
started digging further, we realized
>> in in every language in a high quality
way. That was the starting point and the
and the big the big thing was like
instead of having it just translated um
could you have the original voice,
original emotions, original inonation
carried across? Mhm.
>> So like uh imagine having this podcast
but say people could switch it over to
Spanish and they still hear Sarah, they
still hear Matty and and the same voice,
the same the same delivery. Um which is
kind of exactly what we did with Lex
back when he interviewed Narendra Modi
and you could like kind of immerse
yourself in that story a lot better.
Mhm.
>> Um so that was the original uh uh kind
of insight and um and we we then started
digging further which is that just so
much of the technology we interact with
will will change whether this is how you
create. It's still relatively tricky to
bring voice alive. You you you you would
you need to go through the expensive
process of hiring a voice talent having
a studio space having expensive tooling
to then actually adjust it. The tooling
isn't intuitive to be able to do this.
So like all that creation process will
and should change to make it easier for
new people with keenness to bring that
to life. Then a lot of the technology
wasn't possible for you to be able to um
recreate a specific voice or be able to
create that in that high quality way.
And then of course as we dived into
further and and shifted away from the
static piece, the whole interactive
piece is still crazy in the way it
functions where most of us seen this
technological evolution over last over
last decades. But you still will spend
most of your time on the keyboard. You
will look at the screen and and that
interface feels broken. It should be
where you can communicate with the
devices through through speech through
the most natural interface there is one
that kind of started when the humanity
humanity started and um and we realize
we want to we want to solve that and I
think now fast forward from 2022 I feel
like many people will carry that belief
too that voice is the interface of the
future as you think about the devices
around us whether it's smartphones whe
it's computers whether it's robots
speech will be one of the key ones but I
think 2022 it wasn't and um and as If
you think about the market for the
creative side or whether for for that
interactive side, it was like very clear
it will be a huge a huge huge one.
>> So even when you think about uh just the
research part of your business and then
you have products for at least two
different markets and then you have this
larger mission. A lot has changed in the
last 5 or 10 years but it used to be
like a very strongly held traditional
belief of like one must do one thing
well in a startup and there's no other
path. like you're treating this like an
interaction company, a platform company.
How did you think about sequencing like
the research and the product effort?
>> Does that make sense? Or like thinking
about new markets?
>> And maybe wrapped up in that question
too is just like well where are we in
quality on on voice as well? Because if
if I I would sort of claim like if the
models are not good enough for certain
use cases at all like it kind of doesn't
make sense. Do product
>> and I think that's right. It's it's
almost exactly like when we when we
started originally what we what we did
was try to actually use existing models
that were in the market and kind of
optimize them for our first use case was
actually starting with combination of of
narration and dubbing and then on that
creative side and um we realized pretty
quickly that the models that existed
just produced such a robotic and and and
not not good speech that people didn't
want to listen to it and that's where
microfunders genius came in where he was
able to assemble the team and and do a
lot of the research himself to actually
create new version of of creating that
work. But like to your question, I think
the the way we are kind of organized
internally and how we think about
sequencing a lot of that was looking at
the first problem and then creating
effectively a lab around that problem
which is like a combination of mighty
researchers, engineers, operators to go
after that problem. And the first
problem was the problem of voice. So how
can we recreate the the voice and like
you say it needs to have that research
expertise to be able to do that well. So
we started with effectively a voice lab
which was that mission of can we narrate
the work in in in in better way. It was
a combination of roughly five people
that were that were doing that work and
then sequence the research first and
then build a simple layer on top of that
work to to allow people to use that work
and then kind of expand it from there
with a holistic suite for creating a
full audiobook and then creating a full
movie narration movie dab. Um and then
we move to the next problem which is
realization that okay we have solved the
voice great for making content sound
human
>> the first problem for that to be useful
for us to interact with the technology
you need to solve how you bring the
knowledge on demand into that. M
>> so we effectively started then the
second team which was a second lab uh an
agent lab effectively which was a team
that would combine researchers engineers
and operators once more uh which would
try to fix okay we have text to speech
how do they now combine this with lambs
and speechto text and orchestrate all
those components together while
integrating that with other systems to
make it easier and then similarly you
know you you you kind of expand from
looking just at the voice layer into how
those systems work together and here
too. You need the research expertise to
do that in a low latency way, efficient
way, accurate way. Um, but at the same
time, there's that product layer that
starts forming that it's not only the
orchestration that matters. It's also
the integrations of how you link up to
the legacy systems, how you build
functions around it or how you deploy
that in production and test, monitor,
evaluate over time.
>> Do you feel like you were creating new
use cases when you built the tools? Do
people know that they wanted to do this
already? Um because one argument like
that I remember hearing was like ah like
you know enterprises don't know what to
do with voice how many people really
want to do it and then you're serving
essentially like perhaps the like
creator publisher side of your business.
Yeah,
>> it's definitely a combination of like
initiatives that we believe will happen
in the world and then like response to a
lot of that like as I think back we you
know of course voice the internal voice
lab or agents lab then kind of that
kickstarted so many of the other labs in
response to the problems we started a
music lab because people wanted to
create music with 11 labs was a fully
licensed model where people wanted to
use and create speech but they wanted to
add music in a in a simple way. We
wanted to deliver that and then of
course that kind of came together
through how do we combine music, audio,
sounds. Uh we are now integrating
partner models from image and video into
that suite is how could you combine all
of that in in one and a lot of that was
in response to the market saying like
hey we would love this and then you will
have completely different use cases even
in that space. Let's say dabbing.
Dubbing is a use case that we didn't
feel there was like a a big push for for
that but we we knew that in the ideal
world in the future you will be able to
have that content delivered naturally
around the languages still carrying that
um and I still think actually this
market will be immense because it's not
going to be only the static delivery in
movies but if you travel around the
world and want to communicate in real
time like the full bubblefish idea from
hitchhiker's guide of galaxy this will
happen it will be like the biggest
>> uh like the whole breaking down language
barriers that are the barriers to
communication to creation like all of
that will break and and and that will be
like the foundational real time dabbing
concept. So super excited about that
part. And similarly on on the on the
agent side, you um you you you are like
some obvious things that of course
customers that we work with or partners
will will want to want to integrate
which is we want integrations with XYZ
systems. But then there are like other
parts that might not be as easy to
predict of as you interact with
technology you of course want to
understand what's happening but you also
want to understand how the things are
being said and bring that into the fold
which would be something we try to
prioritize on our side. So then the
people when they actually interact with
the technology they realize oh express a
thing is actually so so much more
enjoyable and beneficial and helpful. So
I want to ask a question about this
which relates to quality. Um uh you
[clears throat] know I work with a
series of companies where we're
>> selling a product to uh the buyers are
generally not machine learning
scientists. Right. Right.
>> And even the the scientific community
does not have the like full suite of
eval benchmarks to understand every
domain. Well there a well-known problem
but I imagine for a lot of your
customers it's not like they like know
how to choose good voice. So how do you
how do you deal with that problem? like
is it like a hey I make a clone and like
that sounds like me and I believe it I'm
going to try all of these different
options or or you know actually are you
teaching people to do eval?
>> It's a great question because I think
there are like two big problems. One is
like how do you benchmark the general
space in audio where like you say it's
like so dependent on the specific voice
let alone like if you are training into
interactive then it's like even more
tricky. Um and then the second piece
which is as you are working on specific
use case how you select a voice. So I'll
take the f second front first which is
uh we have like a voice silier
effectively with as we work with with
enterprises we we we deploy that person
to work with them and help them navigate
that person is like a voice coach has an
incredible voice themselves and uh and
now we have like a team under that
person that like will partner to help
you find what's the right branding
>> and now you have like the celebrity
marketplace
>> and now we have a celebrity marketplace
to like help you even get iconic talent
in there like sir Michael pain that
piece was important because of course
the voice will depend on the use case
that you are trying to build the
language all of that will will have an
impact of what's the right voice for
your customer base. So we have
effectively a um a voice person helping
those companies and some companies will
be very opinionated on what they want.
So they will sometimes select it
themselves sometimes give us a brief of
hey we want a voice that sounds
professional neutral is coming. We
recently had a company, one of the one
of the biggest European companies that
wanted uh that gave us a brief which is
very original uh that uh they wanted as
robotic voice as possible.
>> Okay.
>> It was counterintuitive.
>> Um but for
>> you like we can't do that anymore
[laughter]
>> almost. But we were like trying to go
backwards of like how do we do that? But
I think we we got a good result. Uh uh
but recently we had a company in in
Japan where um Japan and Korea where
they wanted to serve different voices
depending on the customer that's calling
in. They have a
>> older populationing and a very younger
population. The younger one they wanted
like one of the famous voices in the
market that's very excitable and happy.
Uh and for the older one they wanted
like a calm slow speaking one. We help a
lot with that. So that's on the voice
piece and I do think it's going to be a
a big important
>> like a personalized choice and then it
can even be dynamic in a customer.
>> Yes. Okay. Exactly. Exactly. And then
maybe in the future it's like going to
be like fully depending on your
interaction. You will like have a voice
created as we understand the preferences
of what people want. So you know like
let's say you're in the evening and you
are tired and you want a slightly
different or maybe not. Maybe that's
like the best uh focus time that you
have like a voice that's that's giving
that energy and probably it's a
different when you wake up and gives you
the morning news of what's happening or
what's the weather. So like all of those
could be different. Yesterday we had a
we had a dinner with some of our our
partners uh and one of them the first
thing they said is like hey I have a new
request for you. I want a New York voice
with a Long Island voice uh uh accent
which I never knew is a thing and it's
territory is supposedly a thing. So uh
so we have that and then on the first
piece I don't I think it's unsolved
problem still where I think you have a
good benchmarks of course in LMS I think
in image space they are pretty good in
voice space you you have of course the
speech quality but then so much of
whether you like or not the speech
depends on the voice that just if you
compare a model A to model B and you
serve them different voices even if the
quality is very different the voice
itself can just make that sort of
different we've seen this I don't know
if you know artificial analysis
benchmarks. I think they're pretty good.
Just switching the voice makes that
makes such a such a big impact.
>> That's so interesting. Yeah. And I
wonder if um as you said this is uh the
most dominant interaction mode we've had
for millennia of all all of human
history, right? And so
>> and bias is of serving but I think so.
>> We're just very sensitive to it. Um and
I think people are going to be very
sensitive to uh their their own
personalization as well.
>> 100%. I think there's also a third piece
which maybe is not directly to your to
your to your note but we've also
realized that you have uh so you have
the benchmarks you have like how do I
find the right voice for my audience but
even the understanding of how you
describe audio data is still lagging in
the industry like when we initially
started we of course went into the
traditional players for them to help us
label not only what was said so like
transcription but also how it was said
like what are emotions use accent and
most people just weren't able to do that
workffect effectively because you kind
of need to hear and have like a little
bit of a skill set of like how would I
describe this specific delivery. So we
needed to create that ourselves. So I
think there is that piece as well of
like how do you effectively interpret
the data of audio in a in a in a in a
more qualitative basis. That's
>> that's that's yeah trickier. Can you
talk about what's happening on uh the
agent platform side like what is
challenging for you know businesses or
even creators that are trying to build
agents and what the what maybe what the
surprising or high traction use cases
are. I think everybody's kind of aware
of the idea of like agent-based customer
support but I imagine you're doing many
things beyond that.
>> Yeah. So the exactly customer support is
probably the one that's like kicking off
the quickest and and that's the the one
that like we see overtaken so many use
cases whether it's where I work with
Cisco or Twilio or Tel Digital all of
all of them are kind of elevating that
to a high extent. I think the second
exciting piece within that domain which
is happening is the shift from
effectively a reactive customer support.
I have a problem. I'm reaching out the
customer support into more of like a
proactive
>> part of the experience customer support.
So to make it explicit, uh we work with
the biggest e-commerce uh um shop in
India, Misho, where they started working
on the customer support side where I
want the uh refund. I want to see the
tracking of the the package to actually
having an agent be a front part of the
experience. So, if you go to the
website, you can you have um you have
the the widget, you can engage it
through voice, and you can ask it, hey,
can you help me navigate to item X, item
uh Y, or can you explain what's the
right thing for me to give up for a gift
for this period of time? And then it
will actually help you based on your
questions, based on what is on the
offer, show you those items, navigate to
the right parts of the piece, maybe go
all the way through the checkout. And I
think this will be a phenomenal thing of
like elevating the full experience where
that's more of an assistant across the
whole thing. We kicked off our work with
Square that enable sort of businesses to
do that work. Exactly the same pattern
started with voice ordering. Uh how can
now this be part of the full discovery
experience too where you get items shown
to you. You can have a lot more
explanation which I think will be a
phenomenal piece where where effectively
from the beginning to the end. So that's
one category. The second one is the
wider shift from static to immersive
media where there's just so much
incredible stories and IP that today
exist in effectively one way of delivery
and now you'll be able to interact with
that content in a completely new way. We
uh I think one of the incredible use
cases was working with Epic Games. We
worked with them on bringing the voice
of Darth Vader and Darth Vader into
Fortnite where millions of players could
interact with Darth Vader life in the
game where you had like a full
experience of of Darth Vader in a in a
in in a new way. And I think this will
be a theme across whether it's talking
to a book, talking to the character that
you like to the whole the whole space
shifting. And then I think the one
that's that I'm most excited about for
the world and for the shift is going to
be education where you will just be able
to have like effectively a personal
tutor uh on your headphone and you like
actually study something in a in a in an
amazing way. I'll give you like two
quick examples. One is uh we recently
worked uh with chess.com. I'm a I'm a
huge fan of chess. I'm a true chess fan.
Okay, great. So you can learn chess but
you can have Hikaru Nakamura or Magnus
Carlson be your your teacher of how you
deliver that which is amazing or even
Botus sisters or it's like all all the
plethora of different players that
engaged with that which I think is great
and then maybe a last one which is a
master class who we worked with to shift
from you can of course have the content
go through step by step
>> um but you can also have like an
interactive experience and the best
example of that was working with Chris
Boss
the FBI negotiator, one of the top
negotiators who has a masterclass
lesson, but then you can actually call
him and have a practice negotiation,
which is crazy.
>> Yeah. Got to get that hostage out. We'll
definitely try it.
>> Yeah. Um
>> can I add one more? I think the one one
last one which combines all of them
together which I which I realized just
recently is uh which was crazy. So
recently I went to uh to Ukraine where
we are working with ministry of
transformation where they are
effectively creating a first agent
government.
>> And the crazy thing is they have all of
those
>> government
>> agentic government. So they want to like
rechange of how they run all the
ministries.
>> Okay.
>> And it sounds
like a big ambitious goal and lofty.
>> No, I think the baseline is like here.
So actually I'm I'm by that immediately.
Yeah. And the crazy thing is I think
they are like so ahead in actually doing
that
>> and I think they are like uh uh two
concrete things there. One they they
kind of combine all those use cases. So
they we we are looking into how they can
have effectively customer support of
government whether it's asking about
benefits or employment about process of
of how you leave uh the country. All of
that be run through effectively a
digital app. Then two how you can have
proactive way of informing citizens of
things that might be happening. but then
having education system that also run
through like this personal uh uh
tutoring experience and all of that is
happening. So that was that was
incredible to see and the second amazing
thing was that the way they've done it.
So they have the digital transformation
piece but they have engineering leaders
in each of the ministries that lead
those efforts and then bring them back
to that one central piece. So that is
like incredible to see and and and also
proud to be able to be working with with
them on on that shift. that despite
everything that's happening they're like
so
>> that's amazing that's really encouraging
um can I ask you a business model
question here because looking at the
strategic landscape um actually I have
many questions here um one of the
observations I'd have is if I look at
one of these like rich voice and action
agent experiences
there a lot of uh let's say fortune 500
global 2000 leaders who listen to the
pod uh they I think a lot of them are
going to buy the idea of like I want
this amazing um automatic like real time
available 24/7 every language experience
for my customer that's consistent and
high quality. The ways I might get there
include working with a Palunteer or a
large consulting firm, uh, working with
11 or a like platform technology company
or or like an open AI or something,
right? Let's talk about that. Uh, or
working with a sort of more use
caseoriented company like Sierra, right?
[clears throat] How do you think about
how people are making that decision or
how they should make that decision? the
so so my past is also in Palunteer so I
started exactly kind from from that side
and we do blend a lot of the forward
deployed engineering inside of the
company too as I think about the kind of
our offering and and the customers
making that choice if you're looking
just as as a like onepointed solution uh
and only that one then likely we aren't
the best choice if you are looking to
deploy that across a plethora of
different experiences so be it customer
support but then you also want internal
training then you might want to elevate
your sales sales part and actually
increase the top line with new
experiences of how you engage customers
beyond that kind of reactive piece. Mhm.
>> Um then it's a great platform to build
and then we effectively as we engage
with customers combine that platform
work with uh with our engineering
resources to help those companies deploy
on that or which we also see
increasingly in um in Fortune 500s G2
G2000s where they will want to build
parts of the things themselves because
they already have a lot of the
investments in that platform while then
engage us on some of the the new ones
and combine those and and and I think
that our model and the way it's
different to to a lot of the use case
specific ones is that our platform is
relatively open where you can use pieces
of that platform and not all of them um
for for those different use cases.
Palunteer of course will will or or some
of the consulting companies will have a
lot more resources to go in the wider
digital transformation journey. In our
case, it's like very specific
conversational agents. It's like if you
are looking for new interface with
customers, that's the the best way. And
um and companies like Sierra phenomenal
of course on on how they are thinking
about the the specific pointed uh uh use
case and the maybe the other piece is uh
like as we think about our work
depending on how you are what you are
optimizing for. So we we have a lot of
international partners. If you have like
a a wider geographic user base, great.
That's what we optimize for. Our voices,
our languages, our support for
integrations internationally are just so
much broader. There's frequently a piece
that you will look into depending on
your exact scope, this will be this will
be a big factor. But I would summarize
that if you're looking for a solution
across the set of different use cases
that you want our engineering help and
deploy that, then we are the right
solution and probably the best solution.
I want to talk a little bit about maybe
like opening eye and the foundation LLM
foundation model companies. One of the
reasons a lot and I called this podcast
no priors is because we're like okay
people are making a lot of assumptions
all the time about how the market is
going to work and lo and behold like
many of those assumptions end up being
nonsense actually and you you you can't
you have to very much decide your own
narrative at this point in time. I
think, correct me if I'm wrong, like in
2022 and 23, you probably heard a lot of
people say like Google can do this and
OpenAI can do this and like why do you
get to persist working on voice anyway
as a general capability? What's the
answer? That also adds adds a kind of
another element to to to that the couple
of the other previous questions where
whether it's agents work whether it's
the creative work deploy the value in
those in those work you need a very
strong product layer you need the
integrations you need to help people
deploy the work which is the most common
piece but our superpower and our focus
for a long time was building the
foundational
models to actually make that experience
seamless and as I think about a lot of
the companies in the market they will
optimize for a lot of other things and
that that will be like the
differentiator um in our case where we
will make the whole experience
especially with voice seamless human
controllable in a in a much better way
>> and so fundamentally you would argue
that like the labs just aren't going to
focus on this and haven't
>> exactly so I think most of those
companies and that's the thing about the
long term it's going to be incredible
research and incredible product that
meets customers where they are and work
backwards from there. I don't think the
the labs will focus on building that
product layer that's so important.
>> But I think the you know part of the
question that you're asking is like how
uh or and and and why they haven't done
even the research part
>> to the quality that that we've been able
to as here I'm also biased but we are
happily beating them on benchmarks with
text to speech or speech to text or the
orchestration mechanisms and here credit
to my co-founder and the team uh that
they've been able to do it. It's just a
mighty researchers just continuing their
work. But I think the main part that I
think is different in audio space is
that you don't need the scale as much as
you need the architectural
breakthroughs, the model breakthroughs
to really to really make a a dent. And
um and we've been able to do that couple
of times and I think the number of
people doesn't matter but the people
that you do does. We think there's maybe
50 to 100 researchers in audio space
that could do it. We think we have
probably 10 of them um in the company
that um that are some of the best ones.
And I think this like obsession of just
those people working across and then
actually giving the full focus on the
company on making them actually work on
that and bringing their work to
production, seeing how the users
interact back was was so important. So
that's the that's I think how we how we
been able to create models um better
than some of the the the top companies
out there. But you know the truth is
it's like to large extent is why they
weren't able to do it is also like an
interesting we we don't know it's like
it's a it's a it's uh they are like they
have such an incredible talent there
too.
>> How do you think at the same time about
um like open source models? anyone you
ask in the company I think will say that
same and that's like a narrative we
think about it's in the long term models
will commoditize or the differences
between will be negligible for some use
cases they will still matter for most
like the long like the most use cases
they they won't um
>> and they'll be broadly available and
>> they will be broadly available exactly
and we don't know where that is whether
it's two years three years four years
but it's it's going to happen at some
stage then of course you will have a
fine tuning layer that will matter a lot
um on on top of those models but like
the base models I think will get pretty
good. Um and that's why for us the
product piece is so important from the
company perspective but also from the
value perspective because if you have a
model that's great but to actually
connect your business logic and
knowledge to um to be able to have the
right interface for creating a an ad for
your work or a completely new material
that's uh that's a very different
exercise um but open source models are
getting if I split into two like more of
that async content narration I think
narration is pretty much open source is
great, commercial models are great, the
differences are are getting smaller on
the on the out of the box quality. What
most of the models haven't figured out
um and I think we we wear is how to make
them controllable.
>> So that's the kind of the narration
piece I think the whole interaction
piece of how you orchestrate the
components together whether that's
cascaded speechto text and lamb text to
speech approach or whether in the future
it's a fused approach where you train
them together. I think this is is good
for customer support or customer
experience but it's still away from like
conversation like we have and like
passing that Turing test. So I think
this is still like a at least a year
like a within a year and then you'll
have like real time dubbing kind of
variation of like real-time translation
conversation and I think that's maybe
like more two years within two years
away. You know, a very uncomfortable
belief that I I feel comfortable having
this belief, but I think is uncommon in
the market right now is that actually
most advantages in technology, like they
could they could last you a year or they
could last you 10, but they're not like
infinitely defensible. And if you think
about that from a model quality
perspective or a product perspective,
they allow you to like serve the
customer better and build momentum and
build scale for some period of time. And
actually that's really powerful over
time, right? But it's not like a clean
forever answer. And so I think that
makes I don't know business people and
investors uncomfortable.
>> And I mean it's it's it's it's very true
as well. [laughter]
>> The way we I mean the way you think
about it research is head start. This
gives us we can give advantage to the
customer earlier and it's six 12 months
of advantage. That is also a way for us
to build a right product layer for you
to get best of that research. Frequently
we do that in parallel. So the moment
the research is out there you have the
product because we know our initiatives
we know what the product is. That's
right. So you have research product in
parl that extends that. But the kind of
the thing that will really give that
long-term value is the ecosystem that
you create around whether that's the run
and distribution whether that's the
collection of voices you can have the
collection of integrations you can build
the workflows that you can build. Um
like I think that's that's the way we
kind of sequence that in our mind that
research product ecosystem that we built
and um and research all it is is a is a
head start and being able to like
accelerate the future a little bit
closer. I think that's a really powerful
insight especially if you know the
research and the research team and the
company team believe that as well
internally
>> it's it's it's I think the piece that we
what's like interesting for us is u and
I think this is like the the the big
questions for all companies that do
research in product is do you wait for
research or do you do like a a product
change uh or even not only research
product companies like do you wait for
someone else to do the research because
the timeline for that isn't clear is it
3 months 6 months 12 months don't know
exactly what it will do which is the
hard choice of like do I invest into
product layer or do I just wait more for
the research so like in our case we
internally let all the product teams the
research initiative so we can paralyze
that work uh but we don't hold them that
if if a product team thinks we should
deliver value to the customer by doing
something different they can and rough
rule of thumb is like three months if we
think it's going to be longer than three
months we will probably build it if it's
less than that we probably won't
>> can you talk about some of the research
that you're doing now and and how you
think about like the cadence of delivery
and what's worth working on.
>> We have now number of of different
initiatives across the audio space and
there are there are kind of two big
buckets and and and roughly they will
relate to that creative and agent side.
On the creative side what this means uh
with the texttospech models that are
controllable. Uh we then added
speechtoext model that transcribes in a
high accurate way but across a low
resource languages as well. So covering
almost 100 languages. then created a
music model, a fully licensed music
model. Um, and as you think about the
future is how those models will also
interact with some of the visual space.
So that's uh a lot of effort and how you
can get a best of audio and then
potentially combine that with existing
video that you have to to to really have
the best delivery. And then on the agent
side, it's of course how you optimize
the real-time speech to text, real-time
text to speech. We just released our
speechto text model scribe v2 which is
under 150 milliseconds 93.5% accuracy
across the top 30 languages on on flares
and it's only top 30 here because we
serve so many others but most of the
people don't so uh so it's uh so it's
beating beating the the all the models
on on benchmarks but as you think about
the future it's also the orchestration
piece of how you bring speechto text lm
and text to speech we are releasing
we'll be releasing over the next couple
of months a new orchestration mechanism
that will lower the end to end part um
we think in a great way. But second
thing which is what is so hard is it's
not going to only allow you to combine
those pieces but add also the emotional
context of the conversation so you can
actually uh respond with the model and
we think and more expressive in a in a
better way. And in the future and
something we're investing is paralyzing
a speechtospech more fused approach as
well. And of course depending on the use
case if you are like enterprise reliable
use case the cascaded approach is the
approach for the next year too
>> has more structure yeah
>> more structure you have more uh
visibility into each of the steps it's
reliable you can I'll call tools if
you're think more expressive and can
hallucinate speech to speech might be
the choice and maybe over time you'll
see them the kind of go one over over
another depending on the on the industry
but that's like a huge investment on our
side which is where the foundation of
all the platform and and and the main
part that we are continually investing
in is is is kind of plethora of
different models that combine the best
of audio with some of the best of the
other modalities together.
>> I want to take uh our last few minutes
and ask you a few questions about just
the future that I think you'll have a
really good point of view on given you
think about voice and audio all the
time. What do you think of AI
companions?
>> I think they will be a big thing and
exist in a big way. not something I'm
personally excited about or something
that we spend much uh time on but uh I
think the whole line of of what's a
assistant companion character that you
enjoy as part of experience will kind of
blurry and blend to a large extent
>> they can be very common but you're not
like enthusiastic personally about it
>> I'm more excited about like more of um
the Jarvis version of that or like like
more of like I have a super assistant
superpower. It's like
>> versus the social version
>> versus the [clears throat] social
version that's like I think it's it just
would be like such an incredible unlock
and and it also like is in a something
blending in that person context like I
would love to start the day and like
someone that understands me and like
start and tell me what's like relevant
to me and open the blinds and then like
tell me about the weather and the
sunshine is and play music straight
away.
>> It's going to happen.
>> It's going to happen. That I'm excited
for. I think the companion um use cases
will will will mention solving
loneliness and in that part I think
that's one way maybe there are like
different ways of engaging people back I
do I do think there will be like an
interesting future even if you think
about education where you will have
superpower with learning from AI tutors
but I think on the flip side of that and
I think this will like that's my
personal take you will have education
good percent of time spent with AI
tutors but then explicit percent of time
spent and without any technology human
to human.
>> So you can you can kind of learn that
part too.
>> Yeah, I think this is the correct model.
Um both in terms of like emotional
guidance and coaching and um you know uh
guard rails, right? As well as like
peerto-peer. Um
>> exactly. What do you think about um
dictation or what happens in terms of
how we like control uh technology that
isn't necessarily personified as well
>> or does it just all become personified?
>> I think not all personified. I think
like some you know communicating within
oven and and home probably will like
stay pretty static and
>> or code I might just
>> Yeah, exactly. like you don't probably
need that much of of like additional
emotional input
>> but uh but I think it's yeah it's going
to be huge part where like in a way what
I hope will happen is you will have
ability to like stay more immersed in
the real life with the devices going
into back into the pocket back into some
version of a um attached element um
assuming that's that's in in the right
setting and um and that kind of acts on
your behalf and in many ways like let's
say dictation it's as Karpati says
decade of agents. Let's let's let's call
it a decade. Then you'll have a decade
of of robots. If you are interacting
with robots, of course, voice will be
the input and the output as one of the
key interfaces. So, you will need that
dictation as a as a huge part. But
similarly,
>> I think the robot's going to be
personified.
>> Yeah. 100% 100%. Yeah. No, like I think
I think most of the use cases will be
personified.
>> Okay. Last one. What's like one thing
that you've seen already exist today or
if you project out a few years will
change about how we interact with
content maybe it's like personalized
voice content or um just something
people are going to do with with AI
voice that they don't do today or that
not everybody knows about.
>> I think this still the biggest one that
hasn't yet kicked into the the the
system is like how education will be
done. I think this go like I think
learning with AI will with voice where
you it's like on your headphone or in a
speaker it's just going to be such a big
thing where you have like your own
teacher on demand and who understands
you very personified and kind of
delivers the right content through your
life I think this will be one of the
biggest use cases uh uh and I don't
think it happened yet I think we have
see of course some of the commercial
partners but like schools universities
how that's deployed in a safeguarded way
in a way that like supports the other
part of the education, the social part
of education. I think all of that will
will evolve and maybe there's a cool
version of that where you have like
Richard Fineman or Albert Einstein
deliver those lecture notes or other
teachers that you love. It's it's it
will be sick.
>> It's a great note to end on. Thanks for
doing this, Marty.
>> Thanks so much.
>> Find us on Twitter at No Prior Pod.
Subscribe to our YouTube [music] channel
if you want to see our faces. Follow the
show on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, or
wherever you listen. That way, you get a
new episode every week. And sign up for
emails [music] or find transcripts for
every episode at no-briers.com.